# Fluree

Fluree is an immutable graph database that, beyond performing typical modern database functions, emphasizes security, trust, provenance, privacy, and interoperability. Fluree is open source, under the AGPL license, and built on open standards. Fluree can be run centralized, distributed, or decentralized.

The following installation steps were executed Ubuntu run via Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). Therefore, there's no guarantee that the steps executed on different operating system will succeed.

How to run:
Prerequisites:
- docker client - up and running

Execute the following command to run fluree:
```
docker run -d --restart=always -p 8090:8090 fluree/ledger:latest
```

If successful, the admin dashboard should be available:
http://localhost:8090


How to use:
1. Adding a ledger
When on the admin dashboard, create new ledger by clicking 'Add Ledger' and providing a unique name of a network and ledger

Fluree supports the following query interfaces that can be chosen from the dropdown menu when clicking 'Query':
- FlureeQL
- SPARQL
- GraphQL
- SQL

2. Create a schema
Schema is comprised of collections and predicates. Collection is like a database table. Every time you want a new type of item in your ledger, you would create a new collection. For example, collections in your ledger might be person, company, or city.

Predicates are analogous to relational database columns. The features of a collection are its predicates. For example, the person collection might have the following predicates: person/firstName, person/lastName, and person/age.

To create a new schema, first a collection has to be created. Choose Transact option and type:
```
[{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "car",
    "doc": "Holds all cars data"
}]
```
Click on the arrow in the top right corner to send the transaction.

To add predicates to the created collection choose Transact once again and type:
```
[
    {
        "_id": "_predicate",
        "name": "car/make",
        "type": "string"
    },
    {
        "_id": "_predicate",
        "name": "car/model",
        "type": "string"
    },
    {
        "_id": "_predicate",
        "name": "car/year",
        "type": "int"
    },
    {
        "_id": "_predicate",
        "name": "car/type",
        "type": "string"
    }
]
```
Click on the arrow in the top right corner to send the transaction.

In the Schema view, the transactions effects should be visible. 

3. Adding data
To add data for a created car schema, open Transact window and type:
```
[
    {
        "_id": "car",
        "make": "Honda",
        "model": "CRV",
        "year": 2020,
        "type": "SUV"
    },
    {
        "_id": "car",
        "make": "Toyota",
        "model": "Celica",
        "year": 1990,
        "type": "sports car"
    },
    {
        "_id": "car",
        "make": "Mercedes-Benz",
        "model": "W211",
        "year": 2005,
        "type": "sedan"
    }
]
```
As always click on the arrow in the top right corner to send the transaction.

4. Querying the data
Click on Query and choose FlureeQL option. Then type:
```
{
    "select": ["*"],
    "from": "car"
}
```
And click on the arrow in the top right corner. It will display on the cars added in the previous step.

To display i.e. only model and year for all the cars, type:
```
{
  "select": ["car/model", "car/year"],
  "from": "car"
}
```

